---
layout: default
long: true
---

# The Parable of Bitcoinia

There was a far away town called Bitcoinia, and in Bitcoinia there was a strange phenonoma--the people of Bitcoinia enjoyed an almost exclusive monopoly on mail services for the entire surrounding country, but they had a law that said  they could only have [one](https://www.reddit.com/r/Bitcoin/comments/63859l/github_commit_where_satoshi_added_the_block_size/) mail courier employed at any time. Now, in the days when the country was small, and Bitcoinia itself was but a tiny village of two or three homes, this had not been a problem because their mailman had always been able to fit more than enough mail in his cart, but now Bitcoinia was a thriving town and the people found that the mail cart would soon be unable to carry anymore mail.

One day a wise man pointed out that the town ought to invest in more mail couriers and carts soon before they ended up with a backlog of mail. Even just one more cart and employee would allow them to carry twice the amount of mail on each trip. This would surely mean, said the wise man, that the town would be more productive and make more money. And if they [didn't](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=14085.msg1590009#msg1590009) do it, he warned, they would soon have a problem where people's mail would have long delays and they might have to charge unreasonable prices to people who wanted faster delivery.

Everyone agreed, and they convened a meeting to discuss how many people to hire and carts to buy once they amended the law. During the meeting, a famous mail theorist named Gregory Maxwell told the townspeople that hiring more couriers and buying more carts, even just one more, would be very dangerous for their mail business. If, for example, the town had two mailmen, it would be more expensive to guard their mail from highway bandits, Gregory Maxwell said. He demonstrated this with math the townspeople couldn't understand, and because it made no sense, and because Gregory Maxwell was very smart and had a [PhD,](https://www.reddit.com/r/btc/comments/89z483/ama_ask_mike_anything/dwuq5rq/) a few of the townspeople agreed with Gregory Maxwell. Most, however, still wanted to hire another mailman.

And so it was that the townspeople sent a man to the market to buy a mail cart and he went and brought it back. But then something strange happened. The next day, they found that the new mail cart was [broken.](https://www.reddit.com/r/Bitcoin/comments/3jj2hf/bitcoin_xt_nodes_being_ddosed/) Nobody knew who did it, but some of the townspeople whispered that it might be Gregory Maxwell and his new followers. Another man was sent to the market to get a cart, and again, the following morning, they found the cart broken.

This obviously wouldn't do, so the townspeople convened another meeting to discuss the broken carts. Gregory Maxwell denied breaking the carts, and he again told the people that they did not need another cart anyways. "Where would it end," Gregory Maxwell asked, "if we bought a cart now? Surely we should only have to buy more and more carts later." Gregory showed that one full mail cart at any time was the only way to ensure that the prices of mail didn't collapse and that the mail were safe in transport. For it might be that the two or three or four new mailmen would compete with eachother and the prices of mail would fall so low that they would all go out of business. Gregory again did a lot of math in front of the people and this time more people agreed with him. Gregory Maxwell promised that he and his scientists were creating a solution to fix the problem, if the townspeople could just be patient.

The wise man sighed and [pointed](http://gavinandresen.ninja/why-increasing-the-max-block-size-is-urgent) to the town's only mail cart. It was nearly [full](https://blog.plan99.net/the-capacity-cliff-586d1bf7715e) and was already begining to bend under the weight of the packages. On a very few days, they even had to leave some mail behind and send it out on the cart the following day. The wise man said they could not wait for Gregory's complicated solution when they had a very [simple](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=157141.msg1758131#msg1758131) one in front of them. He warned that soon there would be other mail services to compete with them if they couldn't ship more packages at once. And many people agreed with him, though less than before. The townspeople who supported the wise man decided that they would buy a cart on their own and hire their own mailman, but Gregory Maxwell's supporters said that this was illegal before and even more illegal now because they no longer had enough support to pass the decision in the town legislature.

The Mayor of Bitcoinia found himself convinced. He passed an order that would [block](https://www.reddit.com/r/Bitcoin/comments/3h9cq4/its_time_for_a_break_about_the_recent_mess/) all further discussion of buying a mail cart until more people agreed that they wanted to buy one. When a popular mail processor said that this was obviously impossible, for how could people come to agree on buying a new cart if they couldn't [discuss](https://www.reddit.com/r/Bitcoin/comments/3h9cq4/its_time_for_a_break_about_the_recent_mess/cu5g3ko) it, Gregory Maxwell's supporters threatened to not now allow this man to be [listed]((https://www.reddit.com/r/Bitcoin/comments/3rejl9/coinbase_ceo_brian_armstrong_bip_101_is_the_best/cwpglh6/) ) on the town's mail processing services. The man sat down.

Thus the town of Bitconia was split in two. Gregory Maxwell and his supporters worked on their new solution to the mail problem. The wise man and his supporters continued to try to bring new mail carts and mailman into the town, but their carts were always found [broken](https://news.bitcoin.com/bitcoin-classic-targeted-by-ddos-attacks/) no matter how they tried to protect them.

And as the wise man had predicted, some people moved from Bitcoinia to surrounding towns and began their own [mail](https://twitter.com/BraveSampson/status/1257026827643748354) services, for Bitcoinia could no longer service everyone. This angered Gregory Maxwell and his supporters. Didn't these people know that only Bitcoinia mail secure and good? These other services grew and it was discovered that many of them were scams or couldn't do mail as good as Bitcoinia, but on the other hand, people needed their mail delivered quickly and cheaply, and lately Bitcoinia had had to increase prices and still they were often days behind in delivering packages.

Another meeting was convened and again, the wise man pointed out that all they needed to do was buy another get another mailman and cart and the problem would be solved. But this time the wise man was kicked out of the meeting, because while everyone was worried about the problem they faced, they were not allowed to discuss it anymore before more people agreed. A few people rose in his defense and they were removed from the meeting as well.

Then Gregory Maxwell stood and promised that his solution was almost completed, if only they would be patient. 

And all the while, the apple cart grew fuller and fuller, until it happened that one day, the townspeople had to leave an entire cart's-worth of apples behind to rot because the cart had already been filled. On this day, Gregory Maxwell held a big party to celebrate.




