---
layout: default
title: Bitcoin Opsec
categories: bitcoin
---

# Bitcoin Opsec 

You bought Bitcoin a while ago and now you're starting to get rich. Good for you. You had the foresight to see where this thing was
really going and the will to act on it despite the haters and the scammers. Unfortunately that's the only good news I have for you because chances are you're going to be <span>f*cked</span> unless you start taking your opsec seriously. It might already be too late but if it's not, here's what you need to do.

- STOP TALKING ABOUT HOW MUCH BITCOIN YOU OWN, IDIOT. I can't believe how many people I see doing this 
online. By declaring your Bitcoin wealth publicly, you're putting a target on your back for IRS demons, scammers and worse. In the past, you weren't a target because maybe you didn't have a lot of Bitcoin. But soon, a very few Bitcoin might be worth *a lot* of money. Everyone who owns Bitcoin before a hyperbitcoinization event is a target. You need to stop. 

- Remember that YOU ARE POOR. VERY POOR. You don't have much Bitcoin. Maybe you once had some Bitcoin that you bought on an exchange, but you spent most of it or lost it when your laptop fell off your friend's boat on July 4th. The gains other people are bragging about are not yours. You. Missed. Out. You need to start making records and documenting this stuff now so that you have proof of this. Plant breadcrumbs on Twitter. Email friends or fake accounts you set up yourself lamenting the loss of your coins. Create a paper trail that shows you aren't as rich as someone would think. You need to be okay with this and decide that it is better to be seen as poor online than to be extorted by IRS agents or killed by Russian henchmen.

- Your Twitter psuedonym won't help you. Most people using psuedonyms give way too much information about themselves online even when they don't realise they're doing it. Unless you've worked on projects deanonmizing people, trust me, you don't understand how easy it is to do with just the smallest, seemingly insigificant breadcrumbs left by people. Besides, you better believe there will be subpoenas one day against Twitter accounts that are bragging about holding large amounts of Bitcoin. You probably weren't careful enough to guarantee Twitter doesn't have a lot of important personal information on you.
