---
layout: post
title: Hello Again, World!
categories: meta
long: true
crumb: Hello
---

# Hello again, world!

I'm writing again. It's been a long time since I've written consistenty and my output for two years has been maybe a dozen hastily written articles, a couple of which nevertheless enjoyed their [fifteen seconds](https://www.ccn.com/cryptos-big-tax-drama-cant-stop-bitcoin-cash-surge/) of fame and one which even became a bit of a [meme](https://twitter.com/deadalnix/status/1221639291882917888) passed around by a group of Bitcoin developers who blamed me in part for disrupting their funding source.<sup><a href="#fn1" id="ref1">1</a></sup> Still, I can't deny I've failed spectacularly at most of the writing goals I tried to set for myself.

I hope to start changing that today and make 2021 a better writing year. No, I don't know entirely what I'm going to write about. People seem to still like when I write about Bitcoin and I know I have a few things left to say on that, so you can expect that. I've also been doing more unpublished short stories lately which will all be shared here. Besides that, I'm going to leave it open. I had thought of doing some kind of "seasonal" approach to writing, where I go deep into one topic per season, but right now I don't want to commmit to anything other than writing and publishing frequently on anything I'm interested in or which the few readers who remain from my "popular" days in 2018 want me to write about. Maybe when I've developed a better routine I will try some seasons or shorter projects. I just don't know much yet about where to take this new site.

What I do know is that I'm fascinated by Gwern Branwen's idea of a [long site](https://www.gwern.net/About#long-site). Gwern asks on his site: "What sort of writing could you create if you worked on it (be it ever so rarely) for the next 60 years? What could you do if you started now?" I'm working on my own answers to this question, but I like the approach he [recommends,](https://www.gwern.net/About#long-site) which is to "write perpetual drafts, which one tweaks from time to time," as opposed to commiting to writing finely polished essays all the time. To have almost everything I write or create here improve with time (and regular editing and updating) like good wine or cheese rather than spinning the hamster wheel of write-it-and-forget-it blog posts that I think I've often done in the past feels like a good goal.

This is easier said than done, obviously, and I don't doubt that most of the work I do will be very *short* indeed, but I like Gwern's model as an ideal to push towards. Another model I've read which I think is somewhat similar is Nat Eliason's [Wiki Strategy](https://www.nateliason.com/blog/wiki-strategy) which says that "you should only write something if it’s going to be the best article on that topic on the Internet." I like that and plan to try to follow that in the future as best as possible. The Wiki Strategy also says to "create rabbit holes" on your site by creating pages that go very deep and link to similar deep pages on your own site, like Wikipedia. I like that too, a lot. It seems a lot more like the old web before the days of personal sites that are nothing more than a feed of mediocre blog posts, during which time you could easily stumble onto a personal [website](https://melonking.net/melon.html?z=/home.html) with incredible and unique pages that would keep you interested for hours and days with content you'd discover. That's something worth creating.<sup><a href="#fn2" id="ref2">2</a></sup>

In the meantime, in laboring to create a *long site,* I hope to follow my friend  Isaac Morehouse's best [advice,](https://isaacmorehouse.com/2020/01/11/the-transformations-from-daily-blogging/) which is that you only produce great work by publishing daily even if the quality isn't great, in a similar way to how you only get a great body by going to the gym even when you're fat.

And I feel a bit fat, if not in body, in mind, so I'll be starting by publishing something new everyday for 30 days. I have no doubt most of these early articles will be little to remember, but if you're interested in reading regularly, I'll be creating an RSS feed and relaunching my email list some time soon. No definite plans for the email list either, but if I use it and it grows, I'll try to reward early subscribers in the future.


<p class="par">
  
<div>

 {% for post in site.posts %}

<div class="pd"> <time datetime="{{ post.date | date: "%-m/%y" }}">{{ post.date | date: "%-m/%y" }}</time>
</div>
<a href="/deryk{{ post.url }}">
        {{ post.title }}
</a>
 
   

{% endfor %}</div>

</p>

---

<sup id="fn1"></sup>[1] In truth they have nobody to blame but themselves for failing to raise funds in Bitcoin Cash, and while I disagreed with much of what they had proposed, I did my best to [guide](https://read.cash/@Bitcoin.com/bitcoincoms-clarifications-on-the-miner-development-fund-80828a53) the [discussion](https://read.cash/@Bitcoin.com/update-on-developer-funding-83695ebc) to a more productive place by leaving what I thought were obvious hints in some writing I did at the time. I'll tell that story one day. <a href="#ref1" title="Jump back to footnote 1 in the text.">[return]</a>

<sup id="fn2"></sup>[2] You'll notice that this site is very plain, almost entirely unstyled, and degrades gracefully. That is intentional. The drama, as Ogilvy said, is in what you say, not the typeface. I also like how fast it is and that each page is a blank canvas. Resist themeification!
